Finally, in this exercise we're going to work with optimizing redshift table design.
As in the previous exercise,
we also know that we have used the exercise two to create
a redshift cluster with an end point and ARN role.
I would like to start at this point that maybe
you went in this back-to-back exercise two,
three and four or maybe you paused and came back and in case you paused,
I actually advice you in exercise two
to clean up your redshift cluster
and then when the time comes for you to do exercise four,
you can launch your cluster again.
So, I go ahead and run.
I should run from the beginning.
Connect to the cluster.
Here the dataset we're using is this line or the star schema benchmark.
This is a famous dataset for benchmarking data warehouses,
which Amazon has provided actually loaded in a public bucket for us.
If you look here, you have one fact table,
which is the line order and you have the revenue, the taxes,
the discounts and the prices and the quantity here
are your facts and then you have some dimensions here,
like the part, the supplier,
the customer and the date.
Actually, some of the things here are actually on
the Redshift Amazon tutorial but we are actually giving you a lab environment for them,
so you can see this, actually do it with your own hands.
So, I want to explain a little bit the point of
this exercise and the idea is that we want to create basically two databases.
One of them has optimized design,
the other has a non-optimal design.
So, one design is naive,
where we didn't do any distort sort keys and the other one we did distance sort keys.
If you remember to do that,
we have a little bit of logistics and you can see that in the past exercise,
changed the finding, and this is going to complicate things a lot
here if we start to to change all those tables and do two versions of them.
So, instead, we use the functionality of the schema, which is basically,
inside one database, you can create two schemas and inside each schema,
you can create tables with the same names.
So, we created two schemas,
one called dist and one nodist.
So, we go first and do the nodist schema.
Here we say, create schema if not exist nodist and you say like this,
set search path to nodist.
This means all the SQL statements that are going to run now,
are going to be executed within the context of the nodist schema.
Well, we just clean up in case we're running this for
the second time or so and we create the table part, the supplier part,
the customer part, the date part,
the line order part and we do that and all of them run normally here.
Then we create a dist schema.
The dist schema, we do the same and we create them as well,
except that we for the part table we put a sort key and a dist key.
For the supplier, we put a sort key.
For the table, we put a sort key and for the date,
we put a sort key and then for the fact itself,
we put a sort key here.
So, almost all of them we were doing some sort key and on some of them we do a dist key.
Basically, we put the dist key on the big tables.
You can already spot here that we're putting a dist key on
the joining key between the line order and the part.
One difference is actually that all the dimensions are quite small and
the part dimensions is quite a big table.
So, we will not be able to do a dist style all on this one.
The only optimization we can do is to put sort and a dist key on the part key.
The supplier is small,
so we're going to make dist style all.
The customer is small,
so we're going to make dist style all and here the dwdate is small,
so we're going to do dist style all.
Of course the line order is big, nodist style all.
Then we are going to copy our tables.
Here we're not going to compare between a single file or multiple smaller files.
No, we have established this in the previous exercise.
So, the large tables are already split into smaller files already.
Now, the intention of us is to go for each table and load it like this.
We put the bucket,
the path and we put the role and so forth.
Since we are going to do this two times,
we actually scripted this to load into the different schemas.
So, we want to do three things.
Number one, we want to make sure that the role ARN is there.
The second thing is that we want to perform the data loading
twice once in each schema the dist and the nodist,
and third we want to collect timing statistics about how long each one take.
So, we made a function called loadTable here and it does all that.
If we run this function here and start loading the data,
we give it the list of tables and it's going to run twice.
I have to warn you that this is going to take at least 10 minutes each.
You might even want to split them,
split this line and this line in order for you not to wait 20 seconds just to be sure.
That would take some time and you're going to see some results.
So, once we get this nodist stats and dist stats,
this is going to give us all the statistics about what has happened.
Let's look at the load time of the dist and load time of the nodist.
They care that this is the load time.
This is something we're going to do once.
You will see here that the load time for the nodist is actually less than the dist,
which means our optimized schema took a little bit longer to
load and its actually looks almost the case for all tables, large or small.
Actually, this is quite normal,
because when you take things naively and put them you're not doing anything at all.
When you do dist, you're doing sorting, you're doing distribution.
So, you're spending a lot of time actually
doing a pre-shuffling to put things in a nice order.
So, that's okay.
But our hopes is the reward is going to be much bigger actually for query time.
This graph is also nice because it shows you
the ratio of the facts to the dimension which is actually should always be like this.
I mean, usually, the facts are way way way bigger table than the dimensions.
So, we compare here the queries.
We have a number of queries here.
I'm going to show you the results of the queries first.
We also done this compare query times for you.
So, you have them here the nodist query times and the dist
query times and we plot the results.
You see here that now
the query nodist is taking much longer than the query dist.
We are actually starting to seeing gains here.
In another style, we actually instead of showing times like this,
we compare this Delta and see
the percentage improvement and you have here depending on the run.
Here for example, it's 55.
Those exact numbers are going to differ a little bit.
So, you can run this multiple times because of different loads and so on.
If you run them multiple times,
you will see slightly different ranges.
But we have seen 70 percent on that green one actually.
Let's go a little bit back and look at this big one,
the one was largest improvement which is called the drill.
So, we have a query on one-dimension,
a query on two-dimensions,
a drill in one-dimension, same distribution.
Let's take a look here.
So, one thing also we are doing while profiling,
is that we say enable result cache for session to off.
What happens is if you run a query,
the results of the query redshift automatically without you telling anything,
just keeps this cached.
So, if you run it again,
it would be like, Let's get this from the cache.
In our cases here, we're profiling.
So, we don't want to see the effect of caching,
we want to make sure that everything is like the first time performance.
So, we select here.
If you look at this one,
this is the fact table being joined on one-dimension summing the revenue.
Here we're doing a little bit of
filtering on the year and the discount in a certain range and the quantity.
So, to do something less than 24,
you will have to do a little bit of search and do a little bit of search and so on.
So, that is one dimension join and you get on that good 45 percent improvement.
Remember that where the improvement came from in the naive version,
you would actually join those two and we'll get a shuffle.
Actually, in the other one,
where dwdate is copy,
you don't get any shuffle.
So, you're seeing the performance difference here.
The second one which is the two dimensions here,
we have the fact table being joined with three of them.
But take care that this part alone is not
copied with an all dist and we are doing grouping on two of the dimensions.
So, we're seeing here the result is not fantastic,
because we have a mix of both.,
the ones that could be joined and the one that cannot be joined.
The third one, we are actually doing line join with two
here and we are using the order and group by with the sort keys.
So, here the nodist version is going to be really suffering joining with two of them.
Thus we see also the large improvement here compared to the nodist.
Finally, here we have a simple one where we do a part key.
With a part key, line order was part key and here
both of them are going to be joined on the same key.
So, we should also get some nice improvements.